
Project Design and Development Tools
************************************

This project was designed to conceptualize and make concrete the
criteria introduced in the *Motivation*. We have chosen the hosting
platform GitHub as it is free [for open and public projects], reliable
and  make open source collaboration extremely easy. **GitHub** uses
**git**, a fast and efficient version control system, to make
collaboration easy and painless. Anybody can start working on a public
project by making a copy [called forking] thereby making
collaborations easy to start.

The project development will be primarily in Python. Python is open
source, easy to learn, and comes with a lot of useful software
libraries, plotting software etc. It has become the language of
scientific computing with large number of projects based on it.

The energy-climate-economics models are usually a class of problems in
mathematical optimization and operations research. The models can be
written in terse mathematical notation but the specialized programs
[**Solvers**] that can solve these problems can only handle simple but
large data structures. There is therefore a middle layer - a special
**mathematical programming language** - required to translate between
human and computer. Other software are required to handle data and
process and plot results.

The most important consideration in the choice of Python has been the
considerable progress in the development of an open source
mathematical programming language, Pyomo, which is based on Python.
Pyomo and a large number of open source optimization  software
packages are being developed under the project Coopr (A COmmon
Optimization Python Repository) at Sandia National Laboratories.

There has also been a decade long initiative in the mathematical
programming and operations research  community to develop open source
solvers and other optimization tools. These software have been
developed under the COIN-OR (COmputational INfrastructure for
Operations Research) project. There are a large number of these open
source solvers that are extremely good, and we will use them in our
project.

The development of open source policy models would not be possible
without the development and success of the open source software
movement.
